Linux Basics:

Navigating the command line - 

What is the main reason the instructor recommended using VirtualBox with Ubuntu for this session?
It allows you to use the linux terminal to write the linux commands. Also any changes made in ubuntu will not affect your actual system software so you don’t run the risk of deleting some operation/file your system needs to operate.

Explain the concept of a terminal in Linux and how it relates to graphical user interfaces?
It provides a way for users to execute linux commands, navigate files, install software packages, and perform various tasks on a system without the need for a graphical user interface (without the need to physically go searching for the files/folders). 

How does the "ls" command work, and what information does it provide?
It is used to list files, it  lists all the files/directories in the current directory or in a specified directory.

Compare and contrast the use of "echo" for overwriting and appending content to files, providing examples of each?
Echo can be used to overwrite or append the previous text in a file depending on the operator used. The “>” operator overwrites the text in a file with the one provided and the “>>” operator adds a new line of text to the existing content in a file.

Describe the differences between the "cp," "rm," and "mv" commands, and provide situations where you might use each of them?
The “cp” command makes a copy of a directory or file and puts that copy in a specified directory. This command is used when you still want the original file/directory to be avilable n its present working directory.
The “mv” command moves s directory or file and puts it in a specified directory. This command is used when you do not want a copy of the file/directory to remain in the present working directory.
The “rm” command is used to delete a file from the present working directory.


Mastering Linux command basics - 

What is the difference between a relative path and an absolute path in Linux, and why is understanding this distinction important when navigating through the file system?
A relative path gives the path in relation to the present working directory. An absolute path give the path from the root directory 

Explain the purpose of the "mkdir," "rm," and "touch" commands in Linux. Provide an example of when each of these commands might be used in a practical scenario.
The “mkdir” command is used to create a new directory in the present working directory (pwd) and can be sued when a new directory needs to be created.
The “touch” command is used to create a new file in the pwd with  a spercified file type.
The “rm” command is used to remove a file from the pwd.

How can you view the content of a file in the terminal without opening the file in a text editor? What command would you use to achieve this?
This can be achieved with the “cat” command.

Suppose you want to find a file on your Linux system, but you only remember its name, not its location. Describe the command you would use to search for the file and display its absolute path.
The “find” command can be used to display the relative path of the file and the “pwd” command can be used along with the “find” command to get the absolute path.

The instructor mentioned the significance of file permissions in Linux. Could you explain why changing file permissions is essential and provide an example scenario where you might need to modify file permissions using the "chmod" command?
File persmissions determine who can access files and directories on the system and are a security measure to help maintain and secure the system, eg. if a person needed permission to make a file executable, they would need to use the “chmod +x” command.


Exploring Linux file system hierarchy - 
What is the purpose of the shebang (`#!`) at the beginning of a script, and how does it relate to script execution?
It is used to tell a computer how to execute a program with an executor. It states which interpreter will be used when the script is being executed. The shebang line allows you to use the power of different interpreters or customise the script execution behavior.

What is the significance of the `/bin` directory in Linux? How does it relate to system binaries?
Bin directories in Linux are dedicated areas for storing executable files, commonly known as binaries. These binaries are required for the execution of different commands and programs on a Linux system. The binary folders ensure that these executables are easily accessible to users.
It stores essential command binaries which can be used by both system administrator and the user such as cat,ls,mv,ps,mount etc. These commands are used to boot up a system (access boot files, mount drives) and can be used while repairing a system when the binaries in /usr aren’t available

Walk through the process of creating an executable script using the terminal. Include steps for creating the script, changing its permissions, and running it.
  Create a text file having a “.sh” extension. Use this file to type a script.
  While making sure you’re in the same directory as the script file in the terminal, use the “chmod +x” command to give executable access to the file created.
  Execute the script in the terminal using “./” followed by the text file name (with the “.sh” included).
